- ## [Link](https://medium.com/union-finance/introducing-union-70f58f27ba10)
    - > Credit has the potential to be positive sum benefitting both borrower and lender because capital is not strictly fungible. A dollar is valued differently depending on who is holding it.
        - That's true and an interesting basis for understanding the power of credit differently from how traditional finance approaches it. For example credit cards are not often seen as a source of capital, but instead sort of a spending game you play to have a good score and use sparingly because of its predatory interest rates.
        - I'm definitely neglected a ton of nuance, but I would love to tinker with the potential of smart contracts with the appraisal of an unsecured loan -- rather than relying on good faith and handsome returns like a VC might or recreating an inevitably-discriminatory reputation-based system like credit scores; crypto credit could be tied to tangible production
            - I think of how this can help the loved ones in my life that are running small businesses. Take [[Naty's Desserts]] who run their Dominican cake business out of their home. Naty could rent a space and produce so much more than she's currently able to bake in her regular oven or store in their family fridge. Rather than collateral, she could instead provide "proof of profit" so to speak with her venmo transactions, material receipts, etc. acting as that proof.
    - > The Union Protocol is a credit network that enables any address to  accumulate a credit line on-chain in a permission-less, crypto-native way. The protocol itself is not an underwriter of risk, = rather a mechanism to lower the cost of coordinating trust into available credit.
        - ok so that changes this protocol's potential for that [[Naty's Desserts]] example above, but a necessary building block to work towards that future.
    - > **Note**: It’s important to keep in mind Union does not make extending credit to  people you don’t know and trust magically less risky. If you trust an  untrustworthy person, you will lose your money. Union does not solve the inherent risks of being human.
        - Pretty self explanatory, but a worth callout
    - > The UNION token can only be earned
        - This is a dope idea, but I have tons of questions about what this actually looks like.
        - That said, I agree with the fundamental concept of having earners/members of the platform accrue most (if not all) of the token because that's the only way we can actually say that the users are the owners of the platform
            - This gets tricky with respect to how VC funding typically works, trading out of a position in UNION token on the open market if it does technically have some economic value, etc.  
